<!-- Day1 - 24-10-20-25 

HTML : Stands for Hypertext Markup Language 

Hypertext means a text that contains Links(Hyperlinks) which redirects to other documents etc. (i.e. its not plain text it's interactive)

A markup language is a set of tags that is used to define structure and meaning of a document by using tags. 

ex: <p> Hello <p> this means display Hello text in paragraph format ! 

In simple terms : Html is a type of language where we use Hypertext, markup functionality (tags) to display contents

When a webBrowser get's a html webpage it renders the html and sends back to receiver


Before continuing Let's make a dive into how Internet works and what is Internet.

Internet : Is a connection of different computers and other devices around the world interconnected together for information sharing via some standard protocols: Such as http/https.

And we have Routers(routes packets) and gateways : IP send the packets (pieces of bits) from different direction and then send to Destination in a proper format which is ensured by TCP.

Information moves from one computer to another in form of bits. Now comes the DNS and IP !

DNS : stands for domain name system(it translates names to ip address) : It contains a Component known as "DNS resolver" it takes an ip address of a web page (demo.com) and then it resolves it with a domain name and redirects to that webpage. 

And DNS dont have that ip address or domain name so it request the cache, which is a short time memory and if it is not found there then it requests to DNS resolver or Server where the data is stored(ex: google DNS resolver)

IP : an ip is a protocol via which we can identify a electronic device which is connected to other systems via internet. It contains a Special number that that is unique, The ip address is different for webpages,devices etc.


When you visit a webpage (google.com) your web browser sends a HTTP req to the (Google server) asking that you made a http request to get some data( you made a request to open google) and then server responds with a HTTP response containing your requested data.

Https is a secure version of http: Provides ssl/tls security layer to protect your login credentials, payment info etc.

-->